These metro Atlanta companies are making big hires this May
Life May 03, 2019
By Mary Caldwell, For the AJC
If you're looking for a job, start by considering these metro Atlanta companies that are making big hires this May. From fighting cyber vulnerability to keeping a county's citizens safe, the job responsibilities are varied.
Delta Air Lines Delta Air Lines is listed in GlassDoor.com's list of companies that are hiring like crazy in May, with jobs in several cities including Atlanta. Although flight attendants and pilots may first come to mind, the company has positions for a wide variety of skill sets. Current openings in the area include a general manager of motorized ground support equipment, a project leader for finance and a senior cyber vulnerability and threat engineer.To apply for Delta openings, click here.» RELATED: Meet this requirement if you want to become a Delta Air Lines flight attendant Enterprise Holdings Enterprise, National and Alamo car rental companies all fall under the umbrella of Enterprise Holdings, which has 55 jobs open in metro Atlanta. Manager trainees are needed in several locations, and there's also an opening for an automotive maintenance technician as well as many part-time positions for service agents and drivers.To find out more details about each open position in the metro Atlanta area and to apply online, click here.
Gwinnett County Police Department Gwinnett County is adding to its ranks of officers in May. Starting pay is $38,642, and if you're interested, you'll need to have a high school diploma or G.E.D., be a U.S. citizen, have a valid driver's license and be 21 years of age when you're hired. You'll also need to successfully complete a comprehensive background investigation.A hiring event will be held at the Gwinnett County Police Training Center, 854 Winder Highway, Lawrenceville, from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. on Saturday, May 18 and Sunday, May 19. Athletic attire is recommended, and you'll be able to complete the physical fitness assessment and have an interview. The process may take up to six hours, and you'll need to attend only one day of the event. Submitting an application also registers you for this hiring event.
