KL, Canberra step up gender equality discussions

(File pic) Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr Wan Azizah Wan Ismail said that gender is a key priority for Kuala Lumpur and Canberra and yesterday's meeting gave a chance for experts from both countries to exchange perspectives and experiences how to promote gender equality. (NSTP/SALHANI IBRAHIM)
By New Straits Times - May 3, 2019 @ 9:39pm
KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia and Australia have stepped up discussions on gender equality after senior officials and experts from both countries met yesterday for a second dialogue, after the first was held eight months ago.

Back in August last year, Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr Wan Azizah Wan Ismail said that gender is a key priority for Kuala Lumpur and Canberra and yesterday's meeting gave a chance for experts from both countries to exchange perspectives and experiences how to promote gender equality.

The exchanges covered the elimination of violence against women, increasing women's labour force participation and economic empowerment of poor and rural women.

At the launch, Deputy Minister for Women, Family and Community Development, Hannah Yeoh lauded both countries’ efforts to promote women's empowerment while stressing that awareness and mind-set change apart from legislation are very important.

“Both governments have recognised gender equality as a priority. It is important for the economy and it is important for the sort of society we want to live in.

“Everyone should think about what small and practical steps that can be taken. It's not just about legislation because legislation without awareness and mind-set change will not be effective,” she said.

The dialogue was co-organised by the Australian High Commission and the Ministry of Women, Family and Community Development Malaysia, assisted by the Ministry of Rural Development and Ministry of Human Resources.

Giving his remarks at the closing of the one-day dialogue, Australian High Commissioner, Andrew Goledzinowski believed that both countries can learn from each other and that can lead to increased cooperation.

“This dialogue has highlighted the importance of working together. Progress on gender equality requires collaboration across government agencies as well as with the private sector and civil society.

“I hope this dialogue will also open up new channels for cooperation between Australia and Malaysia. I believe there is great potential to learn from each other,” he said.
