According to the 2018 Annual Report issued by China Fortune Land Development (CFLD, 600340.SH) on April 19, CFLD achieved business income of 83.8 billion yuan ($12.4 billion) in 2018, a year-on-year increase of 41 percent. The report also shows that in 2018, CFLD achieved a net profit of 11.7 billion yuan, a year-on-year increase of 33 percent, which was attributable to shareholders of the listed company.

According to CFLD's profit distribution plan, proposed cash dividends to all stakeholders in 2018 amounted to approximately 3.6 billion yuan, a year-on-year increase of 35 percent.

Financial situation continues to improve

In 2018, CFLD vigorously optimized its organizational structure, increased revenue and reduced expenditures.

CFLD made full use of the domestic bond market in 2018, continued to expand the overseas bond market, and issued various bond products, including 12 billion yuan of public debt, 4.61 billion yuan of private debt, and 5 billion yuan of short-term financing bonds. During 2018, the company issued 1.37 billion US dollars of overseas bonds.

In terms of throttling, the proportion of sales expenses in CFLD's operating income decreased by 1.1 percentage points, while the proportion of management expenses in the company's operating income decreased by 3 percentage points.

By the end of 2018, CFLD's debt structure has been improved with the proportion of interest-bearing debt due within one year and was reduced from 31 percent to 19 percent, and its financial situation is at a safer level.

Industrial model accelerates replication

In 2018, CFLD established 18 new industrial cities, totaling 77 industrial cities, and covered 15 core metropolitan areas including Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou in Zhejiang Province, Wuhan in Hubei Province, Chengdu in Sichuan Province and Guangzhou in Guangdong Province. Among them, 66 new industrial towns have been settled, 48 have achieved cash returns, and 20 have accumulated positive net cash flow.

The expansion of CFLD in the region outside Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei has achieved remarkable results, with the total income of 25.7 billion yuan, an increase of 83 percent year-on-year. The rapid breakthrough in areas outside Beijing demonstrates the replication of the model of CFLD new industrial towns and the ability of CFLD to operate the new industrial towns.

Development strategy is clearer

In the future, two thirds of the urban population growth will be concentrated in the core metropolitan areas, accounting for half of the total economic volume of the country.

In line with the development trend of the industry, CFLD has formulated new development strategies: adhering to the layout of core metropolitan areas, strengthening new industrial cities, and exploring new modes, new fields and new regions.

In the future, while optimizing the structure of assets and liabilities, CFLD will quickly enter the market with the mode of asset management output, and gradually explore other market-oriented modes, such as fund mode and asset securitization mode.

CFLD said that on the basis of strengthening new industrial town business, it will increase commercial real estate and related high-end residential businesses and keep exploring new types of real estate businesses.
