Hong Kong plastic surgeon whose patient died after Botox injections to face prosecution
Franklin Li, 86, faces 21 charges, including attempting to mislead police, and failing to keep proper records of dangerous drugs
His patient, Zoe Cheung, a top banker, died last November a day after collapsing at his clinic in Tsim Sha Tsui
Karen Zhang
Karen Zhang   

Published: 1:18pm, 4 May, 2019
1
0
Dr Franklin Li (centre) after he was arrested by police after a patient died after receiving Botox treatment at his clinic. Photo: Sam TsangDr Franklin Li (centre) after he was arrested by police after a patient died after receiving Botox treatment at his clinic. Photo: Sam Tsang
Dr Franklin Li (centre) after he was arrested by police after a patient died after receiving Botox treatment at his clinic. Photo: Sam Tsang
A veteran Hong Kong plastic surgeon whose patient died after getting Botox injections at his clinic is to face prosecution on a raft of charges.
Police laid a total of 21 charges against Dr Franklin Li Wang-pong late on Friday, including two counts of attempting to mislead police, 12 counts of failing to keep proper records of dangerous drugs and seven counts of failing to keep records of dangerous drugs in the format required by law.
His case will be heard at Kowloon City’s Magistrates’ Court on May 6.
The 86-year-old doctor was arrested in November after a regular client, 52-year-old Zoe Cheung Shuk-ling, managing director of Swiss private bank Julius Baer, died a day after collapsing at Li’s clinic in Tsim Sha Tsui with Botox injections.
Botox, or botulinum toxin, was initially developed for medical purposes, but is now more frequently applied in cosmetic procedures to prevent wrinkles or to slim targeted areas by paralysing muscles.
Hong Kong’s Dangerous Drugs Regulations maintain that “contraventions of regulations under the keeping of registration or other records under the ordinance” can lead to a fine of HK$450,000 (US$57,359) and up to three years in prison.
There is no retirement age for doctors in Hong Kong, and they can practise in the city as long as their name is registered.
