In celebrations across LAUSD, San Fernando Valley high schools do #collegesigningday

Cheerleaders celebrate Angel Anene, 17, after she announces she will be going to UC Davis to study political science during college signing day at Cleveland High School in Reseda on Friday, May 3, 2019. (Photo by Sarah Reingewirtz, Pasadena Star-News/SCNG)
By ARIELLA PLACHTA | aplachta@scng.com | Los Angeles Daily News
PUBLISHED: May 3, 2019 at 6:22 pm | UPDATED: May 3, 2019 at 6:47 pm
During a Friday morning assembly at the Sherman Oaks Center for Enriched Studies, some high school seniors posed for Instagram using the hashtag #collegesigningday in college sweatshirts while others ran their college rejection letters through a paper shredder on stage.

The event celebrating post-high school education was just one of many LAUSD schools participating in College Signing Day, part of the Reach Higher college access initiative first launched in 2014 by then-first lady Michelle Obama. Obama was at UCLA Wednesday for the official May 1 day, with celebrities like Usher and John Legend in tow.

To congratulate seniors, groups of administrators and hopped on school buses for a day-long ‘college bound bus tour’ across the San Fernnado Valley. The adults found students marking College Signing Day with pom poms, marching bands, churros and LAUSD’s famous coffee cake — some tears too.

Previous



 Sound










Next
1 of 11
Eighteen-year-old triplets Lauren, Megan and Nicole Isagholian, who are going together to UC San Diego, pose during college signing day at Cleveland High School in Reseda on Friday, May 3, 2019. (Photo by Sarah Reingewirtz, Pasadena Star-News/SCNG)

Four-year universities receive most of the attention, but administrators celebrated post-graduate plans from UCLA and Stanford to “UC Pierce”, the military and culinary school.

LAUSD School Board member Scott Schmerelson took the opportunity to advocate for two-year colleges and trade school in his visits to Sherman Oaks CES, Cleveland, Reseda, Canoga Park, Taft and Daniel Pearl Magnet high schools.

“Electrician, plumber, cosmetologist. These are great trades and post high school experiences. Two-year, four-year, it doesn’t matter as long as you’re continuing your education,” Schmerelson told thousands of students at each campus in quads, gyms and classrooms.

“Sometimes college is not for everybody,” he later said from a bus en-route to the next campus. “Everybody who graduates is entitled to go to college but no one is forcing them. Especially for kids that are helping their families out, it’s such a potential to make good money.”

A federal count of LA Unified students determined that 76.1% of the 2018 senior class graduated, with 45.5% of the 32,649 large class meeting UC or CSU requirements. Disparities remain between students based on race, income and language, the data show.

LAUSD conducts an informal survey of graduating seniors on their post-grad plans every year in June. A district survey carried out in part by the National Student Clearing House Research Center found that 63% of the 2016 graduating class enrolled in some form of post-secondary education, 27% of which was at a four-year college.


Obama’s annual May 1 College Signing Day was launched to encourage teenagers to pursue higher education, career training or military service after high school – with a major focus is on students who are low-income and the first in their families to attend college. Since 2014, participation has grown from a few dozen schools to thousands of campuses across the country.

“We’re trying to set up a whole college-going culture at every grade level,” said Cleveland High School college counselor Sharon Drell as she facilitated a university trivia game and dished out college-themed cupcakes.

She’s the only college counselor for all 11th- and 12th-graders on campus, but like at many other schools she trains peer counselors to help other students edit personal essays and stay on top of application deadlines.

This year, college admissions season was rocked by national scandal when wealthy parents were caught in a criminal conspiracy in which wealthy parents bribed their kids way into elite universities. Recent reports suggest additional parents in the LA area may be targeted by federal prosecutors soon.

The scandal was on the mind of senior Peter Azatyan at Sherman Oaks CES, who has committed to attend UC San Diego in the fall. He said the whole thing didn’t surprise him, especially considering how much of a boost things like private tutoring can be for wealthier students in the admissions process.

“Underprivileged students are really at a disadvantage no matter what,” he said. “I didn’t really have that SAT help, and students like me have to work harder to compete. To have a relative that can pay your way in is so unfair.”

In a speech to much of the student body at Canoga Park High School, Jennifer Climaco told underclassman to never assume that lacking the money to pay full tuition should keep them from higher education.

“Coming from a Latino family of two immigrants, I will be the first of my family to attend college. The road has been tough. Sophomores and juniors, keep your eyes on the prize,” she said. Climaco will attend Mount Saint Mary’s nursing program in the fall.

Jason Madrigal-Viera, who spoke after Climaco, became emotional on the podium telling his peers about being rejected from his top school, UCLA. “We all want to succeed, but you won’t always get into your dream school and that’s okay. Live moves on,” he said. “Just know you have a whole life ahead of you.”
