Homeless man arrested near Griffith Observatory in connection with Palmdale triple homicide

Jonathan Paul Misirli, 35, who is described as homeless, was arrested Tuesday, April 30, 2019, near Griffith Observatory, where he had been living in the surrounding park area, on suspicion of killing three men and wounding another in a Jan. 16 shooting on Ranch Center Drive and 40th Street West in Palmdale. (Google Maps)
By CITY NEWS SERVICE |
PUBLISHED: May 3, 2019 at 8:20 am | UPDATED: May 3, 2019 at 8:20 am
LOS ANGELES — A 35-year-old homeless man was behind bars Friday morning, charged with killing three men and wounding another in a January shooting in Palmdale.

Jonathan Paul Misirli was arrested about noon Tuesday as he walked along North Vermont Avenue just north of Los Feliz Boulevard in the Los Feliz area of Los Angeles, according to Deputy Grace Medrano of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.

Sheriff’s detectives learned that Misirli had been living in the park area surrounding the Griffith Observatory and was captured without incident as he walked out of the wooded area, Medrano said.

Detectives had identified Misirli as the suspected shooter in the deaths of Olukayode Owolabi, 27, of Los Angeles; Sean Cowen, 24, of Van Nuys and David Hernandez-Licona, 25, of Los Angeles on Jan. 16 on Ranch Center Drive and 40th Street West.

The first deputies to respond that night located four men in two cars parked at the location, all suffering from apparent gunshot wounds, according to Deputy Marvin Crowder of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department. Details of what led up to the shooting have not been released.

Owolabi, Cowen and Hernandez-Licona were pronounced dead at the scene, and the fourth victim was taken to a hospital, Crowder said. The status of the fourth victim was not disclosed.

Misirli was charged by the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s office with three counts of murder with special circumstance, one count of attempted murder and one count of second degree robbery, Medrano said. He was being held in lieu of $3 million bail.

Anyone with information about the shooting was asked to call the sheriff’s Homicide Bureau at 323-890-5500 or Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477.
