LA City Council approves reforms to city sexual harassment policies

Los Angeles City Hall on Thursday, Feb. 7, 2019. (Photo by Dean Musgrove, Los Angeles Daily News/SCNG)
By OLGA GRIGORYANTS | ogrigoryants@scng.com | Los Angeles Daily News
PUBLISHED: May 3, 2019 at 6:44 pm | UPDATED: May 3, 2019 at 6:44 pm
In a move to streamline how city employees report sexual harassment at work, the City Council voted unanimously this week to adopt reforms to Los Angeles’ harassment and discrimination policies.

The vote on Wednesday follows a motion introduced in February by councilmembers Paul Krekorian and Nury Martinez to update, simplify and consolidate existing harassment, discrimination and other related policies.

The approved recommendations will create clear guidelines and mechanisms to streamline the reporting and investigation process, develop more training and develop technology that reduces barriers to reporting complaints.

RELATED STORY: 18 percent of LA City workers say they were sexually harassed

Kerkorian said the city is committed to ensuring a culture of zero tolerance for abuse, harassment, and discrimination in the workplace.

“Our actions will ensure that all women and men who serve this city will always be respected as professionals and will not be subjected to the kind of intolerable abuses that have been exposed in too many workplaces across the country,” he said in a statement.


Los Angeles City Council members Nury Martinez and Paul Krekorian requested a survey of the city’s 45,000 employees last fall amid a nationwide focus on unwanted sexual attention in the workplace. (File photos)
The council’s action comes after nearly 18 percent of Los Angeles city employees responded to a recent anonymous survey in which they said they have been sexually harassed in the workplace. In that same survey, more than half of employees who said they have been subjected to harassment didn’t report the incident to anyone.

More than 48 percent of respondents said they didn’t know the contact information, or where to find it, for their department’s “sexual harassment counselor,” defined as the employee who can receive claims.

Krekorian and Martinez requested the survey of the city’s 45,000 workers amid several headlines related to the #MeToo movement and in years leading up to the movement. Only 4,200 employees responded to the survey.


Among those headlines have been questions and allegations at City Hall.

In 2014, Francine Godoy, former deputy chief of staff to Los Angeles City Councilman Jose Huizar,  agreed to settle her allegation of sexual harassment against him, though the agreement reportedly did not come with a payout from City Hall. She alleged her workplace benefits were conditioned on sexual favors. Huizar, who is married, maintained the pair had a consensual affair but denied her allegations.

In 2013 came an allegation against John Lee, chief of staff for former L.A. City Councilman Mitch Englander, who is now running in a special election to represent the west San Fernando Valley. Former aide Melody Jaramillo alleged harassment and discrimination, and said that Lee “repeatedly made inappropriate and offensive jokes and comments of a sexual nature in front of and directed at (the woman).” Englander was also accused in the lawsuit of making inappropriate remarks, which he denied.

Lee denied the allegations against him, and the following year the city paid $75,000 to settle, ending the harassment case.
